a. Describe the modules functionality, including how to control the accumulator state. Would
you ever need to put a non-zero value in? Why?

The function of this module is to take in two values of size C_DATA_WIDTH then on the next cycle multiply and accumulate into another register of size C_DATA_WIDTH*2.
The output of this Mac unit is the clamped value of the least significant C_DATA_WIDTH - 1 downto 0.
In order to set to a constant (the reason being to set a bias for non-zero or to reset the accumulation) the TUSER flag is set to '1'


b. Identify a few sample inputs and corresponding outputs that you expect for this module.

Sample inputs are the weights and the activations from the previous layer. This will be two 8-bit signed values that are multiplied together and then accumulated.
The biases will be another input.
For example, a series of values such as 
--set accumulator using TUSER
0x000F
0x08 * 0x20 + 0x000F = 0x001F
0x23 * 0x80 + 0x001F = EE9F

c. Define the module interface (i.e., draw the symbol box around the basic design provided by
the textbook).



d. Prior to authoring the HDL of your implementation, create a schematic diagram of you design
with signal names, widths, and ports defined.



e. Calculate (and report) all of the required bit-widths you will need based on the specific layer
you implemented. Additionally, describe the appropriate quantization approach for the output
of your accumulator based on Tensorflow Lite’s quantization (i.e., 8-bit integers).
If we consider a quantized implementation using 8-bit integers, each major signal would need to be 8 bits wide. The width for each
signal of the design for an 8-bit quantized implementation is shown below:
SD_AXIS_TREADY: 1 bit
SD_AXIS_TDATA: 1 bit
SD_AXIS_TLAST: 1 bit
SD_AXIS_TUSER: 1 bit
SD_AXIS_TVALID: 1 bit
SD_AXIS_TID: 8 bits
MO_AXIS_TVALID: 1 bit
MO_AXIS_TDATA: 16 bits -> because it holds two 8-bit values that are separated for registers A and B
MO_AXIS_TLAST: 1 bit
MO_AXIS_TREADY: 1 bit
MO_AXIS_TID: 8 bits

Internal signals:
signal accum_reg: 16 bits
signal a_reg: 8 bits
signal b_reg: 8 bits
signal user_reg: 1 bit

The accumulator register sums two signals: the previous partial sum (value that was stored in register on the previous cycle) and the output of the multiplier.
If we assume the multiplier multiplies two quantized, 8-bit values, it's output will be 16 bits. This way, we could pad the upper 8 bits of the previous
register value with zeros and perform the sum of two 16-bit fixed point values. To quantize from 16 down to 8 bits, we could take the upper 8 bits and define
that as the output of the accumulator.




f. Implement in VHDL using your previously-designed modules. Test the design for edge-case
inputs using whatever approach you prefer (VHDL testbench, do file, etc.), and justify why
your tests were sufficient. Submit your VHDL files and testbench in a folder called Mac.
Our tests are sufficient because they validate all the functionality that was implemented for this MAC unit. We test that the multiplication is correct,
we test the accumulator register correctly sums the previous partial sum with the new results and keeps the most updated signal. Besides testing the main components,
our testing also validates other important operations: setting the accumulator register to a constant, receiving a signal from the 'previous' MAC unit other than
zero, test the correct operation of the master-slave AXI-Stream Interface Protocol. 
Ultimately, since this is a simple design with a simple implementation, the simple testbench we created is likely sufficient validation. Considering we didn't 
directly implement the submodules (the full-adders, the shifter, the multiplier), we can have a high-confidence in the functionality of those operations and know
we didn't introduce bugs in the system during implementation of the submodules.



g. Synthesize your MAC unit and report the maximum frequency, resource utilization, and the
critical path of the design. Separate instructions for this to follow. Calculate the maximum
layers per cycle and layers per second for your design. Do this for at least 3 data widths.
The reported worst negative slack is 9.168 ns. Since the clock we ran the synthesis for had a period of 0.1 ns, the shortest clock period our design supports
is 9.268 ns, or a maximum frequency of 0.11 GHz. The detailed critical path is given in the relevant screenshots inside the hw folder. However, from a high-level
the critical path is determined by propagating the ripple-carry sums across full-adders, and has a source of setting the clock and destination of the last bit of the
accumulator register. The screenshot of the resource utilization is also on the same folder, but the most significant resource consumption for our design
was I/O, where we used 57% of the available registers.
(How to calculate layers/cycle? Do we need to assume the number of MACs we'd utilize?)
